The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Ohio Naturalist, by Ohio State
University. Biological Club

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Ohio Naturalist
       Vol. 1, No. 8, June 1901

Author: Ohio State University. Biological Club

Release Date: December 7, 2022 [eBook #69491]

Language: English

Produced by: Bob Taylor and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
             https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
             generously made available by The Internet Archive)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE OHIO NATURALIST ***





  Transcriber’s Note
  Italic text displayed as: _Italic_
  Bold text displayed as: =Bold=




  THE OHIO
  Naturalist

  PUBLISHED BY
  THE BIOLOGICAL CLUB OF THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY


  EDITORIAL STAFF

  EDITOR-IN-CHIEF—JOHN H. SCHAFFNER, A. M., M. S.

  ASSOCIATE EDITORS:

  _Zoology_—F. L. LANDACRE, B. Sc.
  _Botany_—F. J. TYLER, B. Sc.
  _Geology_—J. A. BOWNOCKER, D. Sc.
  _Archaeology_—W. C. MILLS, B. Sc.
  _Ornithology_—R. F. GRIGGS.

  ADVISORY BOARD:

  PROFESSOR W. A. KELLERMAN. Ph. D.
  Department of Botany.

  PROFESSOR HERBERT OSBORN, M. Sc.
  Department of Zoology.

  PROFESSOR J. A. BOWNOCKER, D. Sc.
  Department of Geology.


  Volume 1.      JUNE, 1901      Number 8


  COLUMBUS, OHIO

  _PRESS OF HANN & ADAIR_




[Illustration: _THE OHIO NATURALIST_]


A journal devoted more especially to the natural history of Ohio. The
official organ of THE BIOLOGICAL CLUB OF THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY.
Published monthly during the academic year, from November to June (8
numbers). Price 50 cents per year, payable in advance. To foreign
countries, 75 cents. Single copies 10 cents.

  JOHN H. SCHAFFNER, _Editor_.
  F. J. TYLER, _Subscriptions_.
  R. F. GRIGGS, _Advertising Agent_.

  _Address_
  THE OHIO NATURALIST, Ohio State University,
  COLUMBUS, OHIO.




CONTENTS


  A Study in Variation on the Wing of the Honey Bee                119
            _F. L. Landacre_

  Twelve Plants Additional to the Ohio List                        121
            _W. A. Kellerman_

  The Food Habits of Some Aphrophora Larvae                        122
            _E. D. Ball_

  The Vernation of Salix                                           124
            _Robert F. Griggs_

  Ohio Reptiles in the Ohio State University Zoological Museum     126
            _Max Morse_

  A Preserving Box for Plants                                      128
            _Edo Claassen_

  Ohio Tumbleweeds                                                 129
            _John H. Schaffner_

  Meetings of the Biological Club                                  129
            _Jas. S. Hine, Sec._


Entered at the Post Office at Columbus, Ohio, as second class matter.




The Ohio Naturalist

PUBLISHED BY

THE BIOLOGICAL CLUB OF THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY

  Vol. 1.      JUNE, 1901       No. 8




A STUDY IN VARIATION ON THE WING OF THE HONEY BEE.

F. L. LANDACRE.


While working on the Honey Bee in the laboratory at the University it
was observed that the number of hooks connecting the posterior wing
with the anterior was not constant.

The query at once arose as to the amount of variation there might be
between different bees in the same hive and also between different
hives. Out of this grew a somewhat practical problem as to whether
the increase in number of hooks was associated with a decrease in the
size of the wing, or whether the increase in number of hooks also
implied an increase in size of wing.

The wings of the bee are undoubtedly more efficient for being
closely attached to each other. The life of the workers is so short,
being only about three weeks, and their activity so great that any
increase in efficiency, especially in the organs of flight, must
have a very direct influence on the welfare of the whole swarm. So
far as the well being of the swarm depends upon nutritive processes
the efficiency of the hive is equal to the average efficiency of the
workers. Now, if the increase in number of hooks and the consequent,
firmer attachment of the wings is compensated for by a smaller wing,
there is much less opportunity for the operation of natural selection
on the individual bees than if the greater number of hooks is always
associated with a broader or longer wing.

This selective process might occur either in the hive or between
hives. If it occurs in the hive it would increase the efficiency of
the hive somewhat; but if it occurs between hives it finally means
the elimination of the weaker hive and the consequent increased
efficiency of the species.

In order to find out the real conditions, one of the students, Mr.
J. N. Frank, took twenty-five workers from each of four hives and
counted the number of hooks on each wing, right and left, and also
measured the width of the anterior and posterior wings on each side,
The width only was taken on account of the difficulty in finding a
good point at the base of the wing from which to measure the length.
The results are so uniform that the width probably gives sufficient
data from which to draw conclusions.

Of the four hives studied, numbers one and two were very weak. Number
three was a strong hive which made forty (40) pounds of extra honey
in the summer of 1900. Number four was weaker than number three and
made only ten (10) pounds of extra honey.

The complete measurements are too long to give in detail, and the
averages only will be offered here.


AVERAGES OF TWENTY-FIVE MEASUREMENTS FOR EACH HIVE TAKEN WITH AN
EYE-PIECE MICROMETER, EXPRESSED IN MM.


HIVE NUMBER ONE.

  ------------------------+-----------------------
  Average Number of Hooks.| Average Width of Wing.
  -----------+------------+-----------+-----------
  Right wing.| Left wing. |Right wing.| Left wing.
             |            | Ant.  Pos.| Ant.  Pos.
     21.3    |    20.9    | 4.21  3.61| 4.28  3.55
  -----------+------------+-----------+-----------


HIVE NUMBER TWO.

  ------------------------+-----------------------
  Average Number of Hooks.| Average Width of Wing.
  -----------+------------+-----------+-----------
  Right wing.| Left wing. |Right wing.| Left wing.
             |            | Ant.  Pos.| Ant.  Pos.
     19.2    |    18.8    | 4.14  3.48| 4.16  3.48
  -----------+------------+-----------+-----------


HIVE NUMBER THREE.

  ------------------------+-----------------------
  Average Number of Hooks.| Average Width of Wing.
  -----------+------------+-----------+-----------
  Right wing.| Left wing. |Right wing.| Left wing.
             |            | Ant.  Pos.| Ant.  Pos.
     21.0    |    21.0    | 4.06  3.48| 4.07  3.50
  -----------+------------+-----------+-----------


HIVE NUMBER FOUR.

  ------------------------+-----------------------
  Average Number of Hooks.| Average Width of Wing.
  -----------+------------+-----------+-----------
  Right wing.| Left wing. |Right wing.| Left wing.
             |            | Ant.  Pos.| Ant.  Pos.
     19.6    |    19.6    | 4.09  3.47| 4.03  3.41
  -----------+------------+-----------+-----------

As to the first query concerning the individual variations in a
single hive the complete table shows that No. 1 varies from 18-21
hooks, No. 2 from 17-21, No. 3 from 18-23 and No. 4 from 17-21. The
right wing is taken as the standard, and the most active hive, No.
3. shows the greatest individual variation. One bee in this hive
had only sixteen hooks, the remaining three being straight spines,
showing how the hooks have been modified from ordinary hairs. This
reversion occurred on three separate wings, in No. 2 one hook on each
wing being straight.

As to the relation between the number of hooks and the width of the
wing the averages are very definite. Taking hives number one and two
from the same apiary, it will be seen that the increase in number of
hooks goes with the increase in width of wing. The same relation is
shown by hives numbers three and four from another apiary in the case
of the posterior portion of the right wing and in both anterior and
posterior portions of left wing.

The results are not conclusive as to the relative efficiency of
different hives because there are so many conditions entering into
the production of large quantities of honey. The number of bees, the
care during the winter, the age of the queen, the number of swarms
produced, and several other factors would have to be taken into
consideration.

The differences in the right and left wings in the bees of the same
hive is marked. The right wing has the larger number of hooks, but
the left wing is the broader. In hive number one the average number
of hooks in the right wing is 21.3, left 20.9; but the anterior wing
on the right side is 4.21 mm., while the left anterior wing is 4.28;
that is, there is a compensation for the reduced number of hooks in
the increased width of the wing. This is true of the first three
hives. In the fourth hive there is a slight advantage in favor of the
right wing.

The following general conclusions may be drawn from these
measurements:

(_a_) There is a variation in the number of hooks in a given hive
ranging between 17 and 23.

(_b_) The difference in the number of hooks in the right and left
wing is compensated for in a given hive by the increased size of the
wing. The right and left wings are in physiological equilibrium.

(_c_) In different hives the increase in the number of hooks is
accompanied by an increase in width of wing; that is, the variation
is emphasized so that selection would work much more effectively;
while in the individual, where—if selection operated on account of
this variation—it would have to be between different wings of the
same bee, the variation is eliminated.




TWELVE PLANTS ADDITIONAL TO THE OHIO LIST.

W. A. KELLERMAN.


The species named below have not heretofore been recorded as a part
of the Ohio flora. The first collector and locality are given for
each of the listed species. The serial number prefixed to each name
indicates where in the Fourth State Catalogue the species should be
inserted.

123a Sorghum vulgare Pers. Occasionally escaped.

270b Secale cereale L. Rye. Occasionally escaped.

781b Dianthus barbatus L. Sweet William. Escaped. Painesville. Otto
Hacker.

(1042a Crataegus polybracteata Ashe. Reported previously, but without
locality. Franklin, Hocking, and Summit Counties; W. A. Kellerman.)

1042b Crataegus pruinosa Wendl. Logan County; W. A. Kellerman.

1042c Crataegus succulenta. Franklin, Fairfield, Knox, Belmont,
Summit, Ottawa, Union, Ross, Carroll, Shelby and Lucas Counties; W.
A. Kellerman.

1526b Teucrium occidentale Gr. Hairy Germander. “Ohio”, Riddell,
1834, (Bull. Torr. Club, 28:170); Reservoir Park, Perry Co., W. A.
Kellerman.

1529a Scutellaria serrata Andr. Showy skullcap. Rio Grande. Gallia
County; Ruth E. Brockett.

1605a Solanum tuberosum L. Potato. Escaped.

1609c Petunia violacea Lindl. Occasionally escaped.

1709a Viburnum molle Mx. Soft-leaf Arrow-wood. Scioto County; W. A.
Kellerman.

1714a Linnaea borealis L. Twin-flower. Canton, Stark County; Mrs.
Theano W. Case.

1986a Chrysanthemum indicum Hortorum. Escaped. Adams County; W. A.
Kellerman.




THE FOOD HABITS OF SOME APHROPHORA LARVAE.

E. D. BALL.


The larvae of all the American species of the Family Cercopidae
as far as known envelope themselves in a frothy mass. Contrary to
popular opinion and to most of the published accounts this froth
does not issue as bubbles from the body of the insect, but is made
by pushing the tip of the abdomen up out of the froth and grasping,
with the anal appendages, a bubble of air and bringing it down and
releasing it within a liquid film. This liquid film is simply the
excretion from the alimentary canal of the sap which is imbibed by
these insects in large quantities. This copious liquid excretion is
a common occurrence in other families of the Homoptera. In the Plant
Lice (Aphidae) it gathers in drops and is called “Honey Dew.” The
Leaf Hoppers and Tree Hoppers expel a clear liquid with some force.
In some species this is in sufficient amount so that when the insects
are numerous the foliage may drip, producing the “Weeping trees” of
the Southern States.

This process of froth making in the Cercopidae was discovered and
first correctly described by Professor E. S. Morse, of Salem, Mass.,
and published many years ago in his Elementary Zoology.[1] His
observations were probably made on the larvae of _A. spumarius_ which
belongs to the genus _Philaenus_ as now recognized.

In the genus _Aphrophora_ as now limited little is known of the food
habits of the larvae. One species (_A._ 4-_notata_) has been found
on various plants and shrubs. The remaining three eastern species,
which belong to a different group and are of some shade of brownish
testaceous, have been given as feeding on pines in the adult state
by various authors. Dr. Fitch has described the larvae of one of
these (_A. parallela_, Fig. 4, Plate 10) as forming frothy masses
on the tips of pine twigs, and in the Nat’l Museum Coll. are some
_Aphrophora_ larvae labeled “Pa. On Pine, July 7,” that undoubtedly
belong to this species leaving little room to doubt the correctness
of Fitch’s determination.

There are two species belonging to the _parallela_ group occurring in
the Rocky Mountain region both found in the adult stage on pines. Of
one of these (_A. permutata_, Fig. 1, 2 and 3, Plate 10) larvae were
found in abundance on two different plants _Chrysopsis villosa_ and
_Lupinus sp._ Both of these plants grow in clumps and it was always
down in the bases of these clumps, some of them often down below the
surface of the ground among the roots, that the larvae were found.
Often ten or fifteen would be found in a single clump their united
froth masses, held up by the coarse stems, reaching a diameter of two
inches or more.

The larvae were found in these clumps from late in May until the
first week in July in the foot hills, and higher up in the mountains
they were just beginning to emerge July 20th. When ready to emerge
they climb up a stem during the night far enough to free themselves
from the froth and as soon as the sun strikes then in the morning
they burst their pupal skins and an hour later they are ready to fly
up to the pine trees where their color admirably protects them.

Although both these plants grow very commonly over a wide extent
of territory the _Aphrophora_ larvae have never been found on them
except where they were within a short distance of a pine tree. At
first sight it would seem probable that the eggs were deposited
in the twigs of the pines, and that the young larvae dropped to
the ground, and from there sought out a food plant, as is the case
in some Cicadas. But as numerous larvae were found in positions
practically inaccessible to any such means of distribution—such as
on the opposite side of a sharp ledge of rocks, across a bramble
thicket, or even on plants growing in the crevices of bare rocks at
a considerable distance above any pines—it seemed nearly certain that
the adults must fly back to the plants to deposit their eggs.

It will be interesting to discover whether a similar food habit
occurs in any of the Eastern members of the genus or whether this
is peculiar to the western species. It seems possible that original
pine-inhabiting species finding themselves unable to maintain their
froth masses in their exposed positions on pine branches in such a
dry atmosphere were compelled to seek moister conditions such as are
afforded by the shade and contact with the earth under these bushy
plants.

 EXPLANATION OF PLATE.—Fig. 1. _Aphrophora permutata_ Uhl. Adult. X
 About 7. Common from the Rocky Mountains to the Pacific. 1a—Side
 view of head, showing profile of face.

 Fig. 2. Pupa of above. 2a—Side view of head of pupa.

 Fig. 3. Semi-diagrammatic cross-section of a clump of _Chrysopsis
 villosa_ to show relative location of larvae with relation to the
 froth mass and the surface of the earth.

 Fig. 4. _Aphrophora parallela_ Say Adult. X About 7. Eastern U. S.
 to Ohio and Mich. 4a—profile of head of same.


FOOTNOTES:

[1] For a detailed account of this process see Prof. Morse’s article
“A Bubble-blowing Insect.” Pop. Sc. Monthly, May, 1900.

[Illustration:

  _Plate 10._

BALL ON APHROPHORA LARVAE.]




THE VERNATION OF SALIX.

ROBERT F. GRIGGS.


Most of the manuals are entirely silent regarding the vernation of
the Willows. Sargent[2] describes their leaves as “variously folded
in the bud” and under different species gives them as: involute,
revolute, convolute, and even conduplicate in the bud. The fact that
he gives two species, closely related and difficult to distinguish,
at the time the buds open (Salix nigra and S. amygdaloides), as
having involute and revolute vernations, led me to take up the matter
to see if a key for their identification from bud characters, could
be constructed.

Not only did I find that they were not involute and revolute
respectively; but that they were neither involute nor revolute,
but both imbricate. On examining other species the same thing was
found. The only exceptions to the true imbricate vernation found are
represented in figures 3 and 4. The section Purpureae, on account of
its tendency to have opposite rather than alternate leaves, often
forms such decussate buds as are shown in figure 3. In Salix incana
Schrenk, a species whose leaves at maturity have revolute margins,
the leaves have a greater or less tendency to roll backwards in the
bud. The most extreme case found is shown in figure 4. Others from
the same twig could be shown where the leaves show only the slightest
tendency to be revolute. If we may consider that this backward
turning is merely a character of the mature leaf manifesting itself
in the bud it is evident that there is here no revolute vernation but
that it is really imbricate.

[Illustration: Salix buds]

The other buds examined vary from the form represented in figure 1
where the whole interior of the bud is taken up with the closely
packed leaves, to that shown in figure 2 where there are a few leaves
with a great deal of wool.

Species like Salix fragilis L. whose leaves are glabrous when they
unfold have buds like the former while species like Salix discolor
Muhl., with leaves excessively wooly when they unfold, are like the
latter. As there are all intergradations between these two kinds of
leaves, there is naturally a series of buds between these two as
extremes. While further investigation is necessary before we would
be warranted in declaring that the vernation of the whole genus is
imbricate; yet the fact that specimens of thirty-four species and
varieties, taken from thirteen of the nineteen sections given by
Andersson in DeCandolle’s prodromus, have their leaves imbricated in
the buds would seem to establish a presumption in favor of such a
view.

The buds examined were soaked in 70% alcohol and free-hand sections
cut and mounted in balsam. On account of scarcity of material,
the buds of several species were not sectioned but dissected on
the growing plant. Such are marked with an asterisk (*). As far
as possible living material was taken, mostly from native plants.
Those species not native were studied from specimens growing in
the University Botanic Garden. In a few cases dried specimens were
resorted to. About one hundred and twenty-five plants belonging to
the following species and varieties were examined.

   Salix nigra Marsh.
   S. amygdaloides Anders.
   S. triandra L.
  *S. undulata Ehrh.
   S. lucida Muhl.
   S. pentandra L.
   S. fragilis L.
   S. alba L.
   S. alba vitellina (L.) Koch.
   S. babylonica x fragilis.
   S. babylonica L.
   S. babylonica japonica (Thumb) Anders.
   S. interior Rowlee.
   S. bebbiana Sarg.
   S. discolor Muhl.
   S. myrtilloides L.
   S. humilis Marsh.
   S. tristis Ait.
   S. sericea Marsh.
   S. petiolaris Sm.
   S. cordata Muhl.
  *S. cordata x sericea.
   S. cordata var. vestita Anders.
   S. glaucophylla Bebb.
   S. adenophylla Hook.
  *S. daphnoides Vill.
   S. smithiana acuminata (Sm) Anders.
   S. candida Fluegge.
   S. incana Schrenk.
   S. purpurea L.
  *S. rubra purpureoides Gen. & Godr.
  *S. candicans Gen. & Godr.
  *S. laurifolia Gen. & Godr.
  *S. sieboldii Gen & Godr.

 EXPLANATION OF THE FIGURES.—Fig. 1. Salix fragilis L. Bausch and
 Lomb obj. ⅔ oc. 2.

 Fig. 2. S. discolor Muhl. B. & L. obj. ⅔ oc. 2.

 Fig. 3. S. purpurea L. B. & L. obj. ⅔ oc. 2.

 Fig. 4. S. incana Schrenk. B. & L. obj. ⅔ oc. 1.

 The figures were drawn with an abbe camera lucida and reduced to ⅖
 of their original size.


FOOTNOTES:

[2] Sargent: Silva of North America 9: 95.




OHIO REPTILES IN THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY ZOOLOGICAL MUSEUM.

MAX MORSE.


Fam. IGUANIDÆ.

_Sceloporous undulatus undulatus_ (Latr.). Sugar Grove.


Fam. ANGUIDÆ.

_Ophisaurus ventralis_ (Linn.). No. 57 has the following note in the
accession catalogue:—“Donated by Dr. N. S. Townshend. Said by him to
have been taken on the University farm.”


Fam. SCINCIDÆ.

_Eumeces quinquelineatus_ (Linn.). Columbus.


Fam. COLUBRIDÆ.

_Carphophiops amoenus_ (Say.). This specimen is marked _C. helenae_
Kenn. The internasal scutae are wanting. The specimen is from Meigs
Co. Another specimen is in the collection but without label.

_Diadophis punctatus_ (L.) Sugar Grove.

_Heterodon platyrhinus_ Lat. Cedar Point. Both the spotted and the
black forms occur on Cedar Point.

_Liopeltis vernalis_ (DeKay.). Sandusky and Columbus.

_Zamenis constrictor_ (Linn.). Hocking County.

_Coluber vulpinus_ (B. and G.). The range of the fox snake, as given
by Cope (Rept. U. S. Nat. Mus., ’98, p. 832) is “over the northwest
of the Eastern district, not being known from east of Illinois***.”
Specimens are taken from Cedar Point and vicinity nearly every
summer. Those in the collection are from Castalia and Cedar Point.

_Coluber obsoletus obsoletus_ Say. Columbus.

_Osceola doliata triangula_ (Boie.). Columbus and London.

_Natrix fasciata fasciata_ (Linn.). Warren County.

_Natrix fasciata sipedon_ (Linn.). This is the common “water snake”
of central Ohio. Specimens are from Sandusky and Columbus.

_Natrix fasciata erythrogaster_ (Shaw.) Put-in-Bay. Among the islands
of Lake Erie this seems to be the prevailing form. One young _Natrix_
was taken during the summer of 1900 which resembled _N. f. sipedon_
L., but aside from this all other forms were _erythrogaster_. It
may be possible that the young of these two sub-species are not
distinguishable—the differences arising later.

_Natrix leberis_ (Linn.). Columbus and Sandusky.

_Natrix kirtlandii_ (Kenn.). New London and Sugar Grove.

_Storeria dekayi_ (Holb.). Columbus.

_Storeria occipitomaculata_ (Storer). Sugar Grove and Kent.

_Eutaenia sirtalis sirtalis_ (Linn.). Columbus.

_Eutaenia sirtalis ordinata_ (Linn.). Columbus.

_Eutaenia sirtalis obscura_ Cope. Cedar Point and Columbus.


Fam. CROTALIDÆ.

_Ancistrodon contortrix_ (Linn.). Sugar Grove and Knox County.

_Sistrurus catenatus catenatus_ (Raf.). Urbana.


Fam. TRIONYCHIDÆ.

_Aspidonectes spinifer_ (LeSueur.). Columbus.


Fam. KINOSTERNIDÆ.

_Aromochelys odoratus_ (Lat.). Columbus and Cedar Point. In May and
June, numbers of this turtle have been taken in the sand on Cedar
Point, while depositing their eggs.


Fam. EMYDIDÆ.

_Graptemys geographicus_ (LeSueur.). Columbus, also taken at
Sandusky.

_Chrysemys marginata_ (Agassiz). Columbus and Cedar Point. The
species picta does not occur in central Ohio—at least west of Licking
Reservoir. One specimen has the normal three dorsal plates broken up
into six which alternate with each other, three being on either side
of the median line.

_Clemmys guttatus_ (Sch.). Columbus and Licking Reservoir.

_Emydoidea blandingi_ Holb. Columbus and Sandusky.

_Terrapene carolina_ (Linn.). Very numerous at Sugar Grove. Found in
sand on Cedar Point.

SUMMARY FOR REPTILES:—Families 8; genera 22; species 30.




A PRESERVING BOX FOR PLANTS.

EDO CLAASSEN.


As the time for botanists has arrived when they will depart for
some time from their work at home and walk over fields and into the
forests to collect plants and flowers new to them, I have thought it
would be interesting and useful to describe a box in which they may
preserve for several days, the collected plants and keep them from
shriveling, particularly if the same are quite large, and exceed in
size the usual small collecting box. As I had one made to order and
know by experience the valuable service it did me, I do not hesitate
to recommend it highly. It is well known that many druggists buy
their glycerine and castor oil in five gallon cans, for which, when
empty, they have no further use. The botanist, therefore, may go to
such a druggist, procure two of the above cans, if possible of heavy
tin and with flat sides, have the tinsmith take off their upper parts
and solder the cans together, after having cut out of each of them a
rectangular piece as long and wide as necessary to give room for a
door and after having trimmed any inside edges. The door is then made
from the two pieces cut out, (or from a new piece) with the addition
of several strips of tin, so that it may overlap and close tightly,
and of the necessary hinges and hasp to open and fasten the door. One
of the original wire handles of the cans is fastened in a similar
manner as before on the top of the box and the preserving box is
ready for use, as soon as it had received two coatings of asphaltum
varnish inside and two of paint outside. Any vessel of suitable
size and containing water should then be put into the box, which will
furnish the moisture for the roots or the lower ends of the plants
and at the same time for the air surrounding these. The dimensions
of the box in question can easily be determined by the botanist
himself, but for those not wishing to do so, I may be allowed to
add, that the length of the box should be about twenty-five inches,
the original width of the cans remaining unchanged. The door should
commence at about three inches from the bottom, reach up to two or
two and one-half inches from the top and have a width of six or six
and one-half inches.

_Cleveland, Ohio._




OHIO TUMBLEWEEDS.

JOHN H. SCHAFFNER.


Tumbleweeds are characteristic of wind-swept plains and dry prairies.
As the forests are rapidly disappearing, the conditions in Ohio are
becoming very favorable for the introduction and development of such
forms of vegetation. A few species are already abundant and some
like Amaranthus graecizans appear to flourish better than on the
prairies of the interior. The past summer a number of cornfields
about Columbus were covered with very large tumbleweeds and during
the winter a number of hedgerows were filled with them, presenting an
appearance quite as striking as anything the writer has seen along
this line.

The following is a list of the Ohio plants which may develop as
tumbleweeds. Those with a question mark have not been seen by the
writer to act as tumbleweeds and a few are given on the authority of
Dr. W. J. Beal.


ANNUAL TUMBLEWEEDS.

  1. Cycloloma atriplicifolium (Spreng.) Coult.
  2. Salsola tragus L.
  3. Amaranthus graecizans L.
  4. Lepidium apetalum Willd. Beal.
  5. Trifolium procumbens L. Beal.
  6. Onagra biennis (L.) Scop. Beal.


TUMBLE-GRASSES.

   7. Panicum capillare L.
   8. Panicum flexile (Gattg.) Scrib.
   9. Eragrostis pectinacea (Mx.) Steudl.
  10. Eragrostis trichodes (Nutt.) Nash.
  11. Eragrostis capillaris (L.) Nees. ?
  12. Eragrostis frankii Steud. ?
  13. Eragrostis purshii Schrad. ?
  14. Agrostis hyemalis (Walt.) B. S. P.


PERENNIAL TUMBLEWEEDS.

  15. Baptisia tinctoria (L.) R. Br.




MEETINGS OF THE BIOLOGICAL CLUB.


MAY MEETING.

The Biological Club met in Zoological Lecture Room May 6, 1901.

Professor Schaffner reported that the committee appointed to consider
the disposition to make of exchanges, had had a meeting and appointed
Professor Osborn to consider the matter further.

Professor Landacre gave a paper entitled A Study of Passalus
Cornutus. He gave the more important conclusions he had arrived at,
after an extended study of the muscular and skeletal systems of that
beetle.

Mr. Griggs read a paper on Vernation in the Willows.

Moulds and other Fungi Injurious to Foods was the title of a paper
given by Miss Mary Dresbach. She gave a list of fungi found on food
products.

In discussing this paper Professor Schaffner said the moulds are of
public interest and many important results may be expected from an
extended study of them. Professor Kellerman said that moulds are an
important factor to guard against in canning fruit. It would be a
great step in advance if fruit could be canned and kept without its
being cooked beforehand.

Miss Elma Perry gave a list of the edible fungi of Ohio. So far 200
species have been recorded and there are no doubt many yet to add.

Under the head of personal observations Prof. Kellerman showed some
interesting variations in our common anemone. A paper on this subject
appeared in the May number of THE OHIO NATURALIST.


JUNE MEETING.

The June meeting of the club was held in Zoological Lecture Room on
the evening of the third.

The editor-in-chief of THE OHIO NATURALIST, Professor Schaffner, gave
a financial statement for the year.

The Secretary read a communication from Professor Kellerman. This
communication was concerned with the past and future of THE OHIO
NATURALIST and an adjourned meeting was voted for its consideration.
The following invitation was received from Professor W. D. Gibbs,
Secretary of the Omega Chapter of the Society of Sigma Xi:

The Omega Chapter of the Society of Sigma Xi cordially invites the
members of the Biological Club to be present at the final meeting of
the Chapter, in the Physical Lecture Room, Saturday June 8th, at 11
o’clock a. m. to hear a lecture by Professor Charles F. Mabery on
the subject: “The Petroleum Industry: Its Rapid Expansion and Future
Promise.”

Dr. Bownocker delivered an instructive paper on “Oil and Gas in
Southeastern Ohio.” The first oil well in that region was drilled
about 1860 at Maxburg in Washington County. The wells in this region
when first put down oftentimes yield 500 barrels or more daily but
they soon decrease until the product of the same well may be only a
few barrels each day. They are long-lived however and wells drilled
in the Sixties are still producing. The oil in Southeastern Ohio has
its origin in the various sands and therefore differs from that of
Northwestern Ohio where all the oil is of limestone origin.

The speaker explained the nature of the country, especially in
reference to the arches where practically all the oil is located.

H. S. Houghton not being present, Professor Landacre gave a short
outline of the subject “A Study of the Muscular and Skeletal
Structures in the Head of a 14 mm. Salamander.”

A. F. Conradi read a short paper on the subject “A Study of the
Cecidomyidae and their effects upon Vegetation.”

The motion was made and carried that when we adjourn we adjourn to
meet in the Zoological Lecture Room Friday evening, June 7th, at 4
o’clock, for the purpose of considering matters connected with the
THE OHIO NATURALIST.

  JAMES S. HINE, Secretary.

       *       *       *       *       *

With this issue THE OHIO NATURALIST completes its first year. The
Editors to be chosen for 1901-2 will continue the Journal along the
same lines and we trust that those interested in the natural history
of Ohio, as well as others, will continue to give their encouragement
and financial support.

A table of contents and a title-page of Vol. 1 will be sent out with
the first number of Vol. 2.

  JOHN H. SCHAFFNER.




Ohio State University

  Six distinct and independent Colleges, each
  with a Dean and Faculty of its own.

  THIRTY SEVEN DEPARTMENTS.
  THIRTY DISTINCT COURSES.

  =AGRICULTURE, ARTS, LAW,
  ENGINEERING, PHARMACY,
  VETERINARY MEDICINE.=

Superior facilities for education in Applied Science. Short or
special courses for mature students not candidates for degrees.

  One hundred and twenty-one instructors. Over thirteen hundred students.
  FINEST GYMNASIUM IN THE WEST.

  _For further information address the President_,
  DR. W. O. THOMPSON, STATE UNIVERSITY, COLUMBUS.




Ohio Forest Trees Identified by Leaves and Fruit.

By W. A. KELLERMAN, PH. D., Ohio State University.


A neat pamphlet for every one who wishes to learn our native forest
trees. Keys simple. Description plain. Can learn the names of the
trees easily.

  Price reduced from 25 cents to      =10 cents=.

Also, =The Fourth State Catalogue of Ohio Plants=.

  Bound copies at cost of binding, namely      =20 cents=.

Gives list of scientific and common names; distribution by counties.

Teachers and others will also be interested in Prof. Kellerman’s
Phyto-theca or Herbarium Portfolio, _Practical Studies_ in Elementary
Botany, _Elementary Botany_ with Spring Flora, all published by
Eldredge & Bro., Philadelphia, to whom apply.

For information or copies of _Forest Trees_ and _Catalogue_ or names
of plant specimens of your region _address_

  W. A. KELLERMAN, COLUMBUS, OHIO




American Entomological Co.

1040 DE KALB AVENUE, BROOKLYN, N. Y.

  Lepidoptera Price List No. 2.—_Price 5 cents_      Refunded
                                                            to Buyers
  ISSUED NOVEMBER 15th 1900.

  Dealers of all
  kinds of ...        _ENTOMOLOGICAL SUPPLIES_

  Manufacturers of the Original
  and Celebrated ...        SCHMITT INSECT BOXES.

  _Builders of INSECT CABINETS, ETC._




The Twentieth Century Text Books of Biology.


  PLANT RELATIONS, 12mo, cloth                    $1.10
  PLANT STRUCTURES, 12mo, cloth                    1.20
  PLANT STUDIES, 12mo, cloth                       1.20
  PLANTS, 12mo, cloth                              1.80
  ANALYTICAL KEY TO PLANTS, 12mo, flexible cloth    .75

All by JOHN MERLE COULTER, A. M., Ph. D., Head of Dept. of Botany,
University of Chicago.

 _They are already the preferred texts, and the reasons will be
 apparent on examination._


ANIMAL LIFE: A First Book of Zoology.

 By DAVID S. JORDAN, M. S., M. D., Ph. D., LL. D., President of the
 Leland Stanford Junior University, and VERNON L. KELLOGG, M. S.,
 Professor in Leland Stanford Junior University. 12mo. Cloth, $1.20.
 _Now ready._

_Not a book for learning the classification, anatomy, and
nomenclature of animals, but to show how animals reached their
present development, the effects of environment, their place in
Nature, their relations to one another and to the human race.
Designed for one-half year’s work in high schools. Send for sample
pages._


ANIMAL FORMS: A Second Book of Zoology.

By DAVID S. JORDAN. M. S., M. D., Ph. D., LL. D., and HAROLD HEATH,
Ph. D., Professor in Leland Stanford Junior University. _Ready in
February, 1901._


=D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, Publishers=, _New York_, _Chicago_,
_London_.




RECENT SCIENTIFIC WORKS


 In =Astronomy=, Dr. Simon Newcomb’s new book, published October,
 1900; in =Physics=, the Johns Hopkins text of Professors Rowland
 and Ames; also in Physics for second and third year high school
 work, the text of Dr. Hoadley, of Swarthmore; in =Physiology=,
 the text by Drs. Macy and Norris, based on the Nervous System;
 also the =High School Physiology= indorsed by the W. C. T. U.,
 written by Drs. Hewes., of Harvard University; in =Geology=, the
 =Revised= “=Compend=” of Dr. Le Conte, and the two standard works
 of Dana,—The =Manual for University Work=, and the =New Text Book=,
 revision and rewriting of Dr. Rice, for fourth year high school
 work; in =Chemistry=, the approved =Storer and Lindsay=, recommended
 for secondary schools by the leading colleges; in =Zoology=, the
 =Laboratory Manual= of Dr. Needham, of Cornell; and the series
 “=Scientific Memoirs=” edited by Dr. Ames, of John Hopkins. Nine
 volumes ready.

The publishers cordially invite correspondence.


AMERICAN BOOK COMPANY, CINCINNATI




  Transcriber’s Notes

  pg 124 Changed Semi-diagramatic to: Semi-diagrammatic
  pg 126 Assumed reduced to 2-5 to mean: ⅖
  pg 128 Removed duplicate word of: vessel of of suitable
  pg 130 Changed the Ohio Naturalist. to: The Ohio Naturalist
  pg 131 Added comma after: Engineering, Pharmacy
  pg 131 Added period after: Keys simple.
  pg 132 Added period after: David S. Jordan M. D
  Table of Contents capitalization and punctuation left as written-
    does not match chapter headings

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE OHIO NATURALIST ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
